03
BOYER

Camp in sight of a British garrison, on the Miamis of the Lake,
August 20th, 1794--one hundred and fifty miles from Greenville.

This day the legion, after depositing every kind of baggage,
took up the line of march at 7 o'clock, and continued their
route down the margin of the river, without making any
discovery, until 11 o'clock, when the front guard, which was
composed of mounted volunteers, were fired on by the enemy.
The guard retreated in the utmost confusion through the front
guard of the regulars, commanded by Captain Cook and
Lieutenant Steele, who, in spite of their utmost exertion,
made a retreat. These fell in with the left of Captain
Howell Lewis' company of light infantry and threw that part
of the men into confusion, which Captain Lewis observing, he
ordered the left of his company to retreat about forty yards,
where he formed them and joined the right, which had stood
their ground. They continued in this position until they
were joined by part of Captain Springer's battalion of riflemen,
which was nearly fifteen minutes after the firing commenced,
who drove the enemy that had attempted to flank us on the
right. Nearly at the same time, the right column came up,
and the charge was sounded--the enemy gave way and fired
scattering shots as they run off.

About the time the right column came up, a heavy firing
took place on the left, which lasted but a short time, the
enemy giving way in all quarters, which left us in possession
of their dead to the number of forty. Our loss was thirty
killed and one hundred wounded. Among the former we
have to lament the loss of Captain Miss Campbell of the
dragoons, and Lieutenant Henry B. Fowles of the 4th sub-legion;
and of the latter, Captains Prior of the first, Slough
of the fourth, and Van Rensselaer of the dragoons, also
Lieutenant Campbell Smith of the fourth sub-legion. The
whole loss of the enemy cannot at present be ascertained, but
it is more than probable it must have been considerable, for
we pursued them with rapidity for nearly two miles. As to
the number of the enemy engaged in this action, opinions are
so various that I am at a loss to know what to say; the most
general opinion is one thousand five hundred, one-third of
which are supposed to be Canadians; I am led to believe this
number is not over the mark. After the troops had taken
some refreshment, the legion continued their route down the
river, and encamped in sight of the British garrison. One
Canadian fell into our hands, who we loaded with irons.
