06
ANONYMOUS KY

Wednesday 20

Clear, The Baggage being Deposited, in the Fortification the
Army moved at 6 in the following order Capt Baker & Capt
Arnold's Companies under the Comd. of Majr. Price formd. the Front
or Corps of observation. Brigd. Genl. Todd on the Left Genl.
Wilkinson on the Margin of the River the artillery and bagage in
the Centre Genl Barbee in the rear the Ground for 5 miles high
& dry open Woods tall large Oaks at 45 Minutes past 8 the
Front was attactd. by a number of Indians in the high Grass They
returnd. the fire and fell back to the Front of the Federal Army, which
likewise fell back untill They Formed the line of Battle when they
movd. on driving the Enemy before them the Cavelry chargd. here
with the loss of the brave Capt. M. Campbell at this Time Genl
Todd Brigade was forming a line and immediately got into action
after getting orders from Genl. Scott to dismount and move
forwards in a lo swampy ground with a great dale of
fallen Timber and thick brush with Hoop and black Ash bushes which
rendred the place difficult to see a Man 10 yds the action Continud
all together 1 hour & 20 Minutes with the Volunteers half an hour
when the Indians and their white allies part British and some French
retired in a very precipitate manner eaving their dead and some of
their wounded on the Field we moved back over the ground
collectd. the wounded and moved to the Federal troops where they
were haltd and had the wound dressd. and litters made to carry
them in, the Army then movd. forwarward within sight of the
British Garison where the Army incampd on a high Bank in a thick 
Brush. the Action was General and conducted with propriety and
honour to the American Arms and Their Officer in sight of the
army was the River divided by a large Island well Cultivated with
Corn & beans and a number of Stacks of Hay which was a pleaseing
sight to the Army but more particularly to the Volunteers that was
across the River and bringing loads of Corn and Hay in one hour
after the army got to the ground under the Guns of the British
Garison a smart Shower of Rain after the action.
