07
WAYNE

Head Quarters
Grand Glaize 28th Augt. 1794.

Sir,

It's with infinite pleasure that
I now announce to you the brilliant success
of the Federal Army under my command in
a general Action with the combined force of the
hostile Indians & a considerable number of
the Voluntiers & Militia of Detroit on the
20th. instant on the banks of the Miamis, in
the vicinity of the British Post & Garrison
at the foot of the rapids.

The army advanced from this
place on the 15th instant and arrived at
Roche de bout on the 18th.; the 19th. we were
employed in making a temporary post for
the reception of our stores & baggage & in
reconnoitering the position of the enemy, who
were encamped behind a thick brushy-wood
and the British Fort.

At 8. o'clock on the morning of the
20. the Army again advanced in columns
agreeably to the standing order of march:
the Legion on the right Flank covered by
the Miamis, one Brigade of mounted Voluntiers
on the left under Brigadier General
Todd, and the other in the rear under Brigadr
General Barbee: a select battalion of mounted
voluntiers moved in front of the Legion, commanded
by Major Price, who was directed
to keep sufficiently advanced--so as to give
timely notice for the troops in case of action.;

It being yet undetermined whether the
Indians wou'd decide on peace or war.

After advancing about five miles, Major Price's
corps received so severe a fire from the enemy, who
were secreted in the woods & high grass, as to
compel them to retreat.--

The Legion was immediately formed
in two lines, principally in a close thick wood
which extended for miles on our left; and
for very considerable distance in front, the
ground being cover'd with old fallen timber
probably occasioned by a tornado, which
rendered it impracticable for the Cavalry
to act with effect, & afforded the enemy the
most favorable covert for their savage mode
of warfare: they were formed in three lines
within supporting distance of each other, &
extending near two miles at right angles
with the river.--

I soon discovered from the weight
of the fire, & extent of their lines that the
enemy were in full force in front in possession
of their favorite ground & endeavoring to turn
our left flank, I therefore gave orders,
for the second line to advance to support
the first, & directed Major General Scott to
gain & turn the right flank of the savages,
with the whole of the mounted Voluntiers
by a circuitous route: at the same time I ordered
the front line to advance & charge with trailed
arms, & rouse the Indians from their
coverts at the point of the bayonet, & when up,
to deliver a close -- well directed fire on their
backs followed by a brisk charge--so as not
to give time to load again:--I also ordered
Capt Mis Campbell who commanded the Legionary
Cavalry to turn the left flank of the enemy
next the river, and which afforded a favorable
field for that corps to act in.--

All those orders were obeyed with
spirit & promptitude--but such was the impetuosity
of the charge by the first line of
Infantry, that the Indians & Canadian
militia & voluntiers were drove from all their
coverts in so short a time, that although
every possible exertion was used by the Officers of
the second line of the Legion, & by Generals
Scott, Todd & Barbee of the mounted voluntiers
to gain their proper positions, but
part of each could get up in season to participate
in the action; the enemy being drove
in the course of one hour more than two
miles thro' the thick woods already mentioned,
by less than one half their numbers.--

From every account the enemy amounted
to two thousand combatants: the troops actually
engaged against them were short of nine-hundred.--this
horde of savages with their
allies abandoned themselves to flight, and
dispersed with terror & dismay; leaving our
victorious Army in full & quiet possession of
the field of battle, which terminated under
the influence of the guns of the British Garrison
as you will observe by the enclosed correspondence
between Major Campbell the Commandant
& myself upon the occasion.--

The bravery & conduct of every
Officer belonging to the Army from the Generals
down to the Ensigns merits my highest
approbation.--there were however some, whose
rank & situation placed their conduct in a
very conspicuous point of view, and which I
observed with pleasure & the most lively
gratitude: among whom I must beg leave
to mention Brigr. Genl. Wilkinson and Colo.
Hamtramck, the commandants of the right
& left wings of the Legion, whose brave example
inspired the troops; to them I must add the
names of my faithful & gallant Aids de Camp
Captain's De Butts & T. Lewis & Lieut. Harrison
who, with the Adjt. General Major Mills rendered
the most essential services by communicating
my orders in every direction, & by their
conduct & bravery, exciting the troops to
press for victory.--Lieut. Covington upon
whom the Command of the Cavalry now
devolved, cut down two savages with his
own hand & Lieut. Webb one, in turning
the enemy's left flank.--

The wounds received by Capts.
Slough & Prior & Lieut Campbell Smith
(an extra aid de Camp to Genl Wilkinson) of
the Legionary Infantry, & Capt. Van Ransselaer
of the Dragoons, & Capt. Rawlins,
Lieut McKenney & Ensign Duncan of the
mounted Voluntiers bear honorable
testimony of their bravery & conduct.--

Captains H. Lewis & Brock with their
companies of light Infantry had to sustain
an unequal fire for some time, which they
supported with fortitude.--In fact every
officer & soldier who had an opportunity to
come into Action displayed that true bravery
which will always insure success.--

And here permit me to declare,
that I never discovered more true spirit
and anxiety for action than appeared to pervade
the whole of the mounted voluntiers; & I am
well persuaded that had the enemy mantained
their favorite ground but for one half hour
longer, they would have most severely felt
the prowess of that corps.--

but, whilst I pay this just tribute
to the living, I must not forget the gallant
dead: among whom we have to lament the
early death of those worthy & brave Officers
Capt. Miss Campbell of the Dragoons and
Lieut. Towles of the light Infantry of the
Legion who fell in the first charge.--

Enclosed is a particular return of
the killed & wounded--the loss of the Enemy
was more than double, that of the Federal
Army--the woods were strewed for a considerable
distance with the dead bodies of
Indians &their white auxiliaries, the
latter, armed with British muskets and
bayonets.--

We remained three days & nights
on the banks of the Miamis in front of the
field of battle, during which time all the
houses & corn fields were consumed & destroyed
for a considerable distance both above and
below Fort Miamis, as well as within pistol
shot of that Garrison, who were compelled
to remain tacit spectators of this general devestation
& conflagration.--among which were the
houses, stores & property of Colo. McKee the British
Indian Agent & principal stimulator of the
war now existing between the United States
and the savages.--

The Army returned to this place
on the 27. by easy marches, laying waste the
villages & cornfields for about fifty miles
on each side of the Miamis: there remains
yet a number of villages & a great quantity
of corn to be consumed or destroyed upon
Au Glaize & the Miamis above this place,
which will be effected in the course of a
few days.--in the interim we shall improve
Fort Defiance, & as soon as the escort returns
with the necessary supplies from Greeneville
& Fort Recovery, the Army will proceed to
the Miami villages in order to accomplish
the object of the Campaign.--

It is however not improbable
that the enemy may make one more desperate
effort against the Army; as it is said that a
reenforcement was hourly expected at Fort
Miamis from Niagara, as well as numerous
tribes of Indians living on the margins
& Islands of the Lakes: this is a business
rather to be wished for than dreaded, whilst
the Army remains in force--their numbers
will only tend to confuse the savages, and the
victory will be the more complete and
decisive,--and which may eventually ensure
a permanent & happy peace.

Under these Impressions, I have
the honor to be
your most obedt.
& very huml. Sert.

Anty. Wayne

The Honble.
Maj. Gen. Knox
Secy. of War.

NB. I had forgot to mention that I met my
Flag on the 16., who was returning with an
evasive answer in order to gain time
for the arrival of the reenforcement mentioned
by the Shawanoe Indians, &amp; which actually
did arrive two days before the action.
