09
CAMPBELL

Fort Miamis, August 20th, 1794.

My Dear Colonel,

I did myself the pleasure to write to you this morning about seven o'clock by
Mr. Montigny. Since when we have passed a very odd kind of day. Within
less than an hour after he set off a very brisk fire commenced a little higher up than
opposite to Colonel McKee's, and increased until near 11 o'clock, when we found
a number of Indians coming down upon us in the open, but by far the greatest
number of them had been noticed under cover of the wood at some distance in our
Front. This fire had for some time no other effect upon our working parties than
to frighten our Canadians and it was with a good deal of difficulty we could prevail
on them not to run away, but as they said to take to their Arms. However, at
last it became so serious that I thought it high time to stand to our Arms, fill up
all gaps in our Abatis and shut out all communications from the Fort, by fixing our
Chevaux de Frise, &c., &c., not knowing at what moment we might be attacked.
The fact was--the Americans and Indians had come to action and the latter were
defeated. Some of the Nations fought well but were outgeneralled. The Wyandots,
they say, have lost the most, but the loss of men altogether is not great on
the part of the Indians. Poor Agushway is shot through the head but not killed.
have lost a number. Accounts, you may believe, vary. Some make it out as
high as 400 but this I do not credit--be that as it may, they seem to have completely
gained their point. We see them now feeding their horses upon Colonel McKee's
Island, and on this side showing themselves in small bodies very near to us, beating
their drums and sounding their horns. Colonel McKee, who has been constantly
with the Indians for several days past, called on me as he passed down, and acknowledged
they were outgeneraled. The Indians are now totally gone away and
I believe towards the Mouth of the River, though he said they were still in spirits
and determined to give them another brush. It has been a great relief to my mind
that the Battle did not happen so near to this Fort, so as to commit me. You
will perceive by this that I still do not expect him to storm our Works. At the same time I
shall act in every respect in the safety of the Post as if I did. The only
thing I am in difficulty about is to say how far safe it would be for you to send us
a reinforcement. If I was to hazard an opinion, I would think it safe and it will
give all here great pleasure to see them. As I send this to Colonel McKee to be
forwarded to you I hope he may be better able to give you information on this
head. In case of any alteration of circumstances, I shall never lose sight of it.

I expect this will find Colonel McKee near Point Au Chene--Would to God
the Governor himself were here. Whatever happens I shall do for the best. No
one can do more. You shall soon hear from me again. Meantime allow me to
subscribe myself.

Ever most faithfully and truly,
Wm. Campbell.

P.S.--Lt. Selbie arrived about three o'clock with your dispatch of the 18th
by which I was extremely happy to find all well at Detroit. Captain Harrow
and his six sailors are still here. To-morrow morning will probably decide me
whether to keep him or not. When we manned our work this morning at Reveille
beating, we mustered 160 Rank and File of the 24th, Queen's Rangers, and Artillery,
(I beg the Artillery's pardon), exclusive of Canadians and artificers. We have
Captain [torn] and about 24 Canadians.
