11
SUDDUTH

...The next morning Orders were for
the detachment of Spies to march by sun rise but we were
prevented by a thunderstorm coming on. It cleared off about
Eight oclock and we proceeded on untill we came within
about half a mile of where the Indians had caused us to retreat
the day before.

The detachment got water & stript off all unnecessary
clothing. It was usual with us to guard against surprise, to
keep two men in front of each line about one hundred yards.
We generally called them out in rotation as they stood on the
list. I observed to the men not to dispute about who was next
on duty that this was the day to gain honor and nearly half
my line turned out. I recalled them all except two Thomas
Moore & William Steele. They moved on briskley & had not
advanced more than one hundred yards untill they fell into an
ambuscade and were both shot down. We advanced briskley
untill we came within twenty yards of the Indians & received
their full fire. Moore was not dead & was taken up & put on a
horse untill he died. Maj. Price then Ordered a retreat & lead
it about sixty steps. The course we took lead us along the
head of the Indian line & they fired on us with a tremendious
roar at a verry short distance. We passed that body of Indians
& saw another party advancing upon us headed by several
horsemen, Maj. Price then Ordered us to halt & fight them. At
that instant some of the Indian horsemen fired upon us at about
forty steps distance. Maj Price then returned their fire which
caused them to pause. I then fired at one of the horsemen who
instantly fell from his horse. Lucas Hood & Harry Martin were
one on each side of me with their guns cocked & up to their faces
to shoot, but he fell so quick as to save their fire. We then
received a verry heavy fire from the foot men. The Maj.
then Ordered a retreat to the main army which was briskly
advancing to support us.

We had retreated some distance when a man called out to
me by name that we were leaving a wounded man. I looked
back & saw the man running after us & the Indians in full persuit
after him. They were about seventy yards behind us & the
wounded man about half way between the two lines. I immediately
stoped my horse & called to the men who would go
back with me. Maj. Price was close by me; he neither said
go or stay. I turned back & five men went with me. When we
met the wounded man the Indians were from thirty to thirty
five steps from him. They immediately droped in the weeds
& bushes & commenced a heavy fire on us. I turned my horse
round and the wounded man tried twice to jump behind me &
failed. I then turned the side of my horse to him & put out
my foot for him to get up in that manner in which he failed also.
William Richie from Mason & Harvey Martin from Clarke lit
from their horses & lifted the man up behind me during which
time the Indians kept up an incessant fire at us at about thirty
or thirty five steps distance. I could see into the muzel of many
of their guns when they raised them to fire on us. The bark of
the trees flew into our faces just as they had put the man up
behind me & the man to my right hand he sliped off, the Indians
shot my horse. The ball passed between the thy of the man
behind me & my own & cut the hind part of the pad of my sadle.
The men that were with me then left me and the horse became
unmanageable; he reared up three times & would not move out
of the place. The Indians by this time advanced with their
tomahawks drawn verry close to me and I believe if my horse
had have seen the Indian horses he would have run to them but
fortunately he discovered the horses of the men that had left
me and followed them. I gave him the spur & pushed him on
the blood gushing out of the wound, his mouth & nose verry fast.
He ran about one hundred and fifty yards & stoped. I leaped
off him & left the man, who informed me afterwards that the
horse fell immediately after I left him. We had got far anough
in advance of the Indians for the wounded man to save himself.

When I left the horse I ran on after my party & they halted
for me. I got up behind one of them and soon met the front of
the Army coming up to our support. I then loaded my gun.
A man by the name of White dismounted & gave me up his horse.
He had heard me receive orders that morning to endeavor to
turn the right flank of the Indians & said I could not perform
the service on foot. I immediately mounted the horse & returned
towards the front of the Indians. I collected about
thirty or thirty five of the Spies, part belonging to each company.
I shaped my course course in front of the Indian line &
passed between them & our Army, as they approached each other,
untill they came so close to each other that a Company of
regulars on our extreme right had to open to the right & left to
let us pass. As we passed the fire of both Armies closed after
us; the Indians were passing on endeavoring to turn our right
wing. I continued in the same direction within gunshot of them
and several times halted to fire on them but they continued to
try to out flank us. I at last pushed on untill I passed their left
& wheeled around their extreme point of their left wing. They
then raised a schrill hallow which was answered in the same
manner back along their line that ended the battle in less than
two minutes. The firing ceased & the Indians retreated. It is
stated by some that the Indians were persued but it was not the
case.

The army remained some time on the battle ground and then
encamped near the British garrison of about three hundred men
commanded by Maj. Campbell. That evening & the following
two days the men destroyed the corn that stood near the garrison,
burnt their hay, & gardens, & every out house, among
otherst the house of Col. MeKee, an Indian trader. The next
day after the battle the spies were sent down the river about seven
miles on the direction the Indians had retreated. In many
places for several yards in weadth they had tread down the
weeds like a log had been roled over it. We discovered no
Indians & returned to Camp. Our loss in battle was about one
hundred in killed & wounded. We had five killed in our Company,
but none wounded that survived the first night. It was
reported that the Americans got forty two scalps. It was supposed
from appearances that many more were killed & taken off
or threw into a pond near where we fought....
