02
RANDOLPH

AUGUST 20th.

Prevented from marching this Morning at the appointed Hour
by Rain; but a 7 o'Clock the Line of March is taken up and continued
in the most perfect Order for four Miles, when a Firing
commenced in Front; in a few Moments our advanced Parties
were compelled to retire by a superior Number. In the Interim
the Legion was formed in two Lines, but the Commander in Chief
finding the Enemy were gaining our left Flank, ordered the Rear
Line to advance to support the Front--This done, and the Whole
formed now in one sustaining front Line, a Charge was ordered,
in which the Enemy were routed and compelled to retire one Mile
in one Hour. When the Pursuit was left, the Legion halted and
refreshed with an Issue of some Spirits--our Killed and Wounded
collected, the former enterred, the latter dressed and sent to Camp
Deposit. Among the Killed was that good, brave, gallant and
intrepid Captain Robert Mis Campbell, of the second Troop
Light Dragoons, and then commanding Officer of the Cavalry,
who fell in a Charge on the Enemy in an early Part of the Action;
by which the Legion was deprived of one of its bravest Officers,
before he had an Opportunity of rendering his Country those
Services which were to be expected from his Bravery. It would
be vain for Abilities like mine to attempt to describe the deceased
Captain Campbell's Virtues; but to do Justice to his Memory I
cannot avoid observing, he was possessed of every Qualification
which constitutes the Gentleman, the Officer and a good Man:
and as he was when living generally loved, now that he is dead
description believe he is as generally lamented.

Lieutenant Henry B. Towles, a brave and gallant Officer of the
4th Sub-Legion Light-Infantry, was also killed in the Course of
this Action, and several other intrepid Officers wounded.

During the Halt of the Legion at this Place, and while the right
Flankers were in Advance of the Army half a Mile, a Canadian was
taken, who was painted and dressed like an Indian Warrior. In
one half Hour the Whole moved some Distance father down the
River and within half a Mile of the Fort, where we were halted
and encamped under the Guns of said Garrison, from which a
Flag was this Afternoon received--its Purport unknown.

Advanced six Miles this Day.
